Umbraco Commerce v14 release notes (#6370)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 14/umbraco-commerce/release-notes/v14.0.0.md

---
description: >-
  Umbraco Commerce v14.0.0 release notes.
---

# Umbraco Commerce v14.0.0

> Umbraco Commerce v14.0.0 is the final release of Umbraco Commerce for Umbraco CMS v14. This release marks the v14 build of Umbraco Commerce now feature complete and ready for developers to start using it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release marks the v14 build of Umbraco Commerce, now feature complete and ready for developers to start using it.
```

## Key Takeaways

* [New backoffice UI](#new-backoffice-ui) build with web-components.
* Some [breaking changes](#breaking-changes) to be expected.

> * Brand new [Management API](#management-api).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

* New more flexible [UI extension points](#ui-extension-points) added.
* New [Management API](#management-api) added.
* [Localization](#localization) support added (in progress).

## New Backoffice UI

As with everything v14, this is a complete rebuild of the backoffice UI using web-components. This ensures Umbraco Commerce is set for the future and creates a solid foundtion to develop new features and functionality.

![Umbraco Commerce v14 Order Editor](../media/v14/order-editor.png)

![Umbraco Commerce v14 Settings Section](../media/v14/store-settings.png)

## Breaking Changes

> With the new backoffice UI, there has inevitably been the need to change some functionalities and use such breaking changes couldn't be avoided. These have tried to be minimized as much as possible, whilst also ensuring we embrace the new front end architecture to it's fullest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the new backoffice UI, there has inevitably been the need to change some functionalities, and as such breaking changes could not be avoided. These have tried to be minimized as much as possible, whilst also ensuring we embrace the new front-end architecture to its fullest.
```

The key breaking changes to expect are:

* **UI Config Files Removed**

>   In previous versions of Umbraco Commerce it was possible to configure the back office order list view, order editor and analytics dashboards using JSON UI config files. These have now all been updated to use the new manifests pattern in Umbraco v14. See the [UI Extension Points](#ui-extension-points) section bellow for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, in Umbraco Commerce, it was possible to configure the backoffice order list view, order editor, and analytics dashboards using JSON UI config files. These have now all been updated to use the new manifests pattern in Umbraco v14. For more details, see the [UI Extension Points](#ui-extension-points) section below.
```

> In addition to this, the UI config files were also used in the backoffice to extract key order properties. For example, extracting the shipping address in order to calculate shipping rates. This functionality has now been split, and the  mapping functionality has been moved to a new server-based configuration API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to this, the UI config files were also used in the backoffice to extract key order properties. For example, extracting the shipping address to calculate shipping rates. This functionality has now been split, and the mapping functionality has been moved to a new server-based configuration API.
```

>   In addition to this, the UI Config Files were also used in the backoffice to extract key order properties for things like extracting the shipping address in order to calculate shipping rates. This functionality has now been split such that this mapping functionality has now moved to a new server based configuration API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to this, the UI config files were also used in the backoffice to extract key order properties. For example, extracting the shipping address in order to calculate shipping rates. This functionality has now been split, and the  mapping functionality has been moved to a new server-based configuration API.
```

  ```
  builder.WithOrderPropertyConfigs()
    .Add("myStoreAlias", b => b
        .For(x => x.Customer.FirstName).MapFrom("firstName")
        .For(x => x.Customer.LastName).MapFrom("lastName")
        ...
    );
  ```

* **Web Notification Events Removed**

>   The following notifications are no longer being fired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The following notifications are no longer being fired:
```

  * `AnalyticsDashboardConfigParsingNotification`
  * `CartEditorConfigParsingNotification`
  * `OrderEditorConfigParsingNotification`
  * `StoreActionsRenderingNotification`
  * `ActivityLogEntriesRenderingNotification`

> * **Web Controllers / Models Removed**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Web Controllers/Models Removed**
```

>   With the new Management API this does mean any controllers / models that previously lived in the `Umbraco.Commerce.Cms.Web` will now have been removed. Please use the Management API instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 With the new Management API, any controllers or models previously located in `Umbraco.Commerce.Cms.Web` have been removed. Please use the **Management API** instead.
```

>   The only exception to this is the `PaymentController` which is used as a callback for payment gateways. This is currently kept at the same URL to prevent breakages for any existing transaction communications, however all new integrations should communicate with a new Payments API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only exception to this rule is the `PaymentController`, which serves as a callback for payment gateways. It is currently located at the same URL to avoid disrupting existing transaction communications. However, all new integrations should communicate with a new Payments API.
```

## UI Extension Points

> With the new backoffice comes a new extensions system for the UI and we have tried to use this to the maximum. These means converting the old UI configs system to using the new manifests system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the new back office comes a new extensions system for the UI, and we have tried to maximize its use. This means converting the old UI configs system to use the new manifests system.
```

With the new extension points it is possible to:

* Change the properties used by the order editor.
* Add properties to the order line properties editor.

> * Add properties to the Notes, Additional Info and Customer Details modals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add properties to the Notes, Additional Info, and Customer Details modals.
```

* Add properties to the order collection view.

> * Add analytics widgets (still in progress)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add analytics widgets.
```

* Define custom views for properties to control value rendering.

> Here is an example of how you would configure such properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of how you would configure these properties:
```

```javascript
export const manifests : Array<UcManifestOrderLineProperty> = [
    {
        type: 'ucOrderLineProperty',
        alias: 'Uc.OrderLineProperty.Color',
        name: 'Order Line Color',
        weight: 100,
        meta: {
            propertyAlias: 'color',
            editorUiAlias: 'Umb.PropertyEditorUi.EyeDropper',
            labelElementName: 'uc-mini-color-swatch'
        }
    },
    {
        type: 'ucOrderLineProperty',
        alias: 'Uc.OrderLineProperty.GiftMessage',
        name: 'Order Line Gift Message',
        weight: 100,
        meta: {
            propertyAlias: 'giftMessage',
            editorUiAlias: 'Umb.PropertyEditorUi.TextArea',
            summaryStyle: 'table'
        }
    }
];
```

With these extension points, the Umbraco Commerce order editor is now more flexible than it has ever been before.

{% hint style="info" %}

> We are yet to launch an Umbraco Commerce NPM module, so these functionalities are not currently available for external use. However, we wanted to give you a heads up about what is coming so you can prepare.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are yet to launch an Umbraco Commerce NPM module, so these functionalities are not currently available for external use. However, we wanted to give you a heads-up about what is coming so you can prepare.
```

{% endhint %}

## Management API

> With the new UI, a completely new API layer is also introduced, similar to the CMS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the new UI, a new API layer is also introduced, similar to the CMS.
```

> We are yet to launch an Umbraco Commerce NPM module so these points are not yet currently available to use externally but we wanted to give you a heads up of what is coming so you can prepare.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are yet to launch an Umbraco Commerce NPM module, so these functionalities are not currently available for external use. However, we wanted to give you a heads up about what is coming so you can prepare.
```

> As with the CMS, with the new UI comes a whole new API layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the new UI, a completely new API layer is also introduced, similar to the CMS.
```

![Umbraco Commerce Management API](../media/v14/management-api.png)

> With the Umbraco Commerce API, we have aimed to keep it aligned with the Storefront API with support for filtering an expansion where possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the Umbraco Commerce API, we have aimed to keep it aligned with the Storefront API with support for filtering and expansion where possible.
```

> With the Umbraco Commerce API we have aimed to keep it aligned with the Storefront API with support for filtering an expansion where possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the Umbraco Commerce API, we have aimed to keep it aligned with the Storefront API with support for filtering an expansion where possible.
```

> We have developed this API with the idea that external developers can use it to create different UIs for Umbraco Commerce, like a dedicated mobile app. We have made sure that there are no "special" endpoints exclusively for the Umbraco CMS UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We developed this API for external developers who can use it to create different UIs for Umbraco Commerce, such as a dedicated mobile app. We have made sure that there are no "special" endpoints exclusively for the Umbraco CMS UI.
```

> A key thought whilst developing this API has been to ensure external developers might use this to build other UI's for Umbraco Commerce such as a dedicated mobile app and so we've tried to ensure there are no "special" endpoints just for the Umbraco CMS UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have developed this API with the idea that external developers can use it to create different UIs for Umbraco Commerce, like a dedicated mobile app. We have made sure that there are no "special" endpoints exclusively for the Umbraco CMS UI.
```

## Localization

> One of the things that has been on the Umbraco Commerce TODO list for a while is to add backoffice localization support. Given the fresh start it was only logical that we take the time to ensure that everything we built fully supported localization so this will be included in this release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given the fresh start, we made sure that everything we built fully supports localization, so this will be included in this release.
```

> In this update, we have made some changes to payment and shipping providers, as well as other CSharp extension points where properties are defined. These changes mean that labels and descriptions will no longer be hard coded; instead, the values will be looked up from the localization file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this update, we have made some changes to payment and shipping providers, as well as other CSharp extension points where properties are defined. These changes mean that labels and descriptions will no longer be hard-coded; instead, the values will be looked up from the localization file.
```

> With this update, we have also made some changes to things like payment and shipping providers, and other CSharp extension points where we define properties. These will no longer require hard coded labels / descriptions and instead will look these values up from the localization file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this update, we have made some changes to payment and shipping providers, as well as other CSharp extension points where properties are defined. These changes mean that labels and descriptions will no longer be hard coded; instead, the values will be looked up from the localization file.
```
